Trust to Blockchain 2024

Overview 24.10.2024

Helsec events (free beer and tacos.. sometimes), hackers, bounty hunters, government officials

once submitted the report, you are sent links for two student work to cross-evaluate 
to be returned 24 h before the next lecture 

.md -pääte (MarkDown) 

Laksu: TomiKilpijarvi, TaiDOmi1

The steps to attack the enterprise

The cyber kill chain (lockheedmartin)


Intelligence-Driven Computer Network Defense Informed by Analysis of Adversary Campaigns and Intrusion Kill Chain 

Threat modelling basics 
- 

Must protect: Crown jewels 
- The valuable stuff

Data 
- GDPR things 
- Trust of customers 
- Company, secrets
Money
Business continuity 

Realistic defense for Bad Guys
- Who they are 
- Why they would 

Vulnerability

Exploits 
- used to find vulnerabilities

Basic model of Threat modelling
Crown jewels - Vulnerability - Exploit - Bad guys

Expected value EV
10 % * 100.000 = 10.000
propability * money = cost of the risk 

High expected value if high propability and high cost 

Identify risks
- 

Mitigate - make more security controls to the system - give more money to decurity guys 

Eliminated eg. no integrations from Tero's app to haaga-elia - user error if uses same account and password

Transfer risks 
- Transferring problems to someone else - eg. Google and Github 

Accept the risk 
- Meteor, terrorists, etc. 

Business decision - you cannot protect from everything.

Prioritizing the risks 

----
Intelligence-Driven Computer Network Defense Informed by Analysis of Adversary Campaigns and Intrusion Kill Chain 
Cyber Kill Chain framework 
https://www.lockheedmartin.com/en-us/capabilities/cyber/cyber-kill-chain.html

The steps that attacker has to take.
- If you don't take all the steps, it's not an attack 
- 
99 % of attackers are motivated by money 
- Russia doing battlespace preparations in Finland - 1 % 
- 

Guys and a bear - 2 guys in a tent 
- Mikko putting running shoes on. I am gonna run faster than you 
- Target selection, you don't have to be perfect 

Reconnaissance (tiedustelu)
Weaponization
Delivery
Exploitation
Installation
Command & Control
Actions on Objectives 

Afternoon tomorrow homeworks. Read the paper. 

Presentation can be anything related to topics of the course - something that is interesting to your class mates.
Email Tero when you have the topic 
Length: ~15 minutes


